[MUSIC]
>> Brian Lonsdorf: Okay, we're almost
ready for the magic, now we're gonna want
some kind of, let's see, it would be
a future in there, because I was thinking
of me and IO to make the call, but other,
it had to be an IO of either, or maybe,
which is kind of a pain, and that's
a future supposed to wrap up I think.
Okay, we'll call this one search.
Search takes a URL and gives back, I don't
know if I call them videos or something.
But they're not really.
They're just the meditative for it.
What should we call it?
Here's a little, actually, that we can
like check out what this kind of looks
like to get a feel for
like what is going on.
What is our code need to do?
>> Speaker 2: You're gonna log the URLs?
I just want to point out, there's
a question on why is this better, right?
And it's because you can compose things,
really?
I mean, that's the bottom line.
If you see the power of composition,
of composing behaviors,
composing functions,
composing these things into bigger things.
And you get laws and
properties, and you're totally
working against an interface,
so they're swappable, substitutable,
everything turns out to be monad.
So, if I make my own library that's been
strings, I can implement this interface,
and you can swap [INAUDIBLE] for
it, and your app doesn't change.
There's a ton of benefit.
>> Brian Lonsdorf: What's
also [INAUDIBLE].
I mean, we have, we're going to see,
at the end of our app here,
we happen to kick stuff off,
we do the stuff,
rather than actually
making the program happen.
We could have sent back the pure stuff,
and then whoever's consuming our app
could be, I like your YouTube thing, but
I'm a YouTube thing that I don't like
filters out, bad results, or
some, whatever, I don't know,
it's getting on top of our app that's
composing with it, rather than running it.
At each stage, you're either something
pure that someone can mess with, or
you can be run.
Maybe that's an oversimplification,
but that's my intuition of it.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, being able to just
keep building upon smaller things and
keep expanding it.
>> Brian Lonsdorf: Okay, search goes from
URL to IO, so what does this look like?
Whatever each of these are called, there's
a feed that has, that's a weird API.
>> Speaker 2: An interesting settings,
sorry.
>> Brian Lonsdorf: Go ahead.
>> Speaker 2: Everything in the pure
part has the benefits of the pure stuff
you're talking about, portability we use.
They're always on memorization and
all that stuff.
>> Brian Lonsdorf: Okay, so entry.
Does entry live inside of anything?
It lives inside the feed.
Okay, cool, cool.
You know what I could do?
I could do say search and review all the
results, just so we can do the API call.
In fact,
it all should be a future of results.
The future JSON, we say that.
Okay.
>> Brian Lonsdorf: I may not
need to do the function.
>> Speaker 2: So, what are we gonna do?
We're going call-
>> Brian Lonsdorf: HTTP GET.
>> Speaker 2: HTTP GET JSON.
Yeah.
>> Brian Lonsdorf: Do we have that?
Yeah, we put it http, or did we?
No, we didn't.
>> Speaker 2: No, we didn't.
[INAUDIBLE] HTTP call.
>> Brian Lonsdorf: The reason
I can grab these things.
>> Speaker 2: [INAUDIBLE],
No you don't, sorry.
>> Brian Lonsdorf: Yeah,
that's all weird style.
>> Speaker 3: Hey, Brian,
Raymond W is wondering,
search shouldn't really be
considered memorizable, should it?
>> Speaker 2: It's all pure, if it
gets a different input the next time,
if search is a different
element the next time,
it's all just going to be for
this input, I'll give you that output.
So- Since you're going to
an external URL to get your output,
that body can change, right?
>> Speaker 3: But we're not though.
We're just getting a future of
a possible thing that will happen.
>> Brian Lonsdorf: Right.
When you call here in the call search,
it doesn't do anything,
it's just is here's the thing.
It's the thing I always give you, and
when you call that thing,
you get different results.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Brian Lonsdorf: But this function
always gives you the same
little thing that it's,
here's some of the fuse when you light it.
It's all yours,
it's always the same, though.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH] Exactly.
But yeah, you'll just get
a future of this particular API.
>> Brian Lonsdorf: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: And so,
as you type different things in there,
that pure stream, the input pure
part returns a new function,
cuz this new input will return
a new future of a different URL.
>> Brian Lonsdorf: All right.
So, we have [INAUDIBLE] API,
got it, that's right, it's kind of
weird to do that, we have to compose.
>> Speaker 3: That's where you're saying
there has some cache played stuff,
where you sound the same thing twice?
That cache is the result.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Speaker 3: That's the return?
>> Speaker 2: Minimalization, yeah, it'll
just, it can trade speed for memory and
get played by taking the same search
results that should get the same exact
future and the same.
>> Brian Lonsdorf: This thing isn't much
to memorize, it doesn't have to do very
much, but if it was some kind of miracle
function, something of a core science.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
Yes, returning the same future every
time [LAUGH] there's a huge game, yeah.
You expect her.
>> Brian Lonsdorf: So,
I actually changed it from the URL,
because if all it took was the URL,
it would be identical with HTTP go, so
I had to first, it's going to take a term,
it runs it through term URL, so cool.
I wonder what happened if we
just logged that, so we say.
>> Speaker 2: We'll have a future,
but nothing will happen,
we'll see a future there.
>> Brian Lonsdorf: We
could do a search string.
The search stream.
>> Speaker 3: When do we fork and
log the results?
I'm not on value log, now our value's
going to get a future, right?
>> Speaker 2: I know we're going
to change URL streams search.
>> Brian Lonsdorf: Or we could try
to make a whole new name stream,
and not to search with URLs.
>> Speaker 3: It looks like
search takes a term URL.
>> Brian Lonsdorf: You're right.
>> Speaker 2: Wait,
I think it should be a URL stream, right?
Wait a minute,
if we're already getting URLs, yeah.
I already used, hang on.
>> Speaker 3: Shouldn't it be
URL stream instead at the other?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah let's
change term URL to URL stream.
>> Brian Lonsdorf: Yeah, this guy.
>> Speaker 2: [INAUDIBLE]
Stream of URLs going in there.
>> Brian Lonsdorf: Let's
call it search stream then.
I didn't even know what this is for, okay.
>> Speaker 2: So yeah, now we have to map,
should we get over that stream?
That's right.
>> Brian Lonsdorf: Now we have to map,
okay All right,
because we are doing
on this chaining line.
>> Speaker 2: No, no, I'm sorry,
up in your search stream
where you can pose HTTP.
Should be good,
that URL streams are strange,
you have to map they should get over it.
>> Brian Lonsdorf: Right, right, right.
>> Speaker 2: And we should be
logging futures right now, but
we might as well just go one step
further and just do fork log log.
>> Brian Lonsdorf: Let's see if it's not.
Just a quick check.
Yeah.
>> Speaker 3: What are we
getting on this one?
>> Speaker 2: It's get, capital JSON,
after get on HTTP for the JSON future.
>> Brian Lonsdorf: Hey.
>> Speaker 2: So
that on value where we log it,
we need to fork, or
at least have to call on value.
>> Brian Lonsdorf: There's-
>> Speaker 2: Cuz that'll subscribe to
the event stream that comes out of the IO.
And this is getting a little crazy.
This is where you're,
I have to deconstruct all these
peer types to get the values out.
And that's, in my opinion worth it, but
it's definitely back to
that discipline thing.
For the all the peer stuff in your app,
being so nice and easy to work with, and
you have to worry about your call
backs and everything poses, whatever.
Down to the bottom you're,
I have to get it out.
[LAUGH].
And that's fine.
It's one line because that's,
it always ends up as one line.
There's only going to be one thing.
I don't think you beyond
value returns anything.
So you can't change fork it.
Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: And
fork takes a lot of one argument,
because the other log is already.
I shouldn't have done it that way
>> Brian Lonsdorf: But what's the failure?
>> Speaker 2: I just
bake logged as a failure.
It should have taken two and a future,
but a big login is the failure.
>> Brian Lonsdorf: Where
does this come from?
Does it come from one of your point three-
>> Speaker 2: It's right there on 19.
>> Brian Lonsdorf: Not on fork-
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, I would change 19 to
error success and future, and
then just future, fork, error success.
It's so much nicer.
>> Brian Lonsdorf: Wait,
change it to what?
Change it to success-
>> Speaker 2: E-R-R-S-U-C.
>> Brian Lonsdorf: Error first?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Brian Lonsdorf: Cuz left and
right, okay.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, and then just insides.
It's error, then success.
>> Brian Lonsdorf: Yeah, yeah, I always
want to do it the other way, okay.
And you need a comma in
between suck in the future.
The future sucks.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, it does, doesn't it?
>> Brian Lonsdorf: [LAUGH]
>> Speaker 2: Without a comma,
it does, okay.
>> Brian Lonsdorf: So
now log log at the bottom.
Sweet.
See some URLs, or some results.
>> Speaker 3: People are asking if it's,
if there's an easier way
to test along the way.
>> Brian Lonsdorf: There is.
It's called a strong type system.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH] I mean,
I gotta tell you, so
there's the results of the YouTube call,
which is really cool.
But typically, your app above
is all returning pure stuff.
So, makes it dead simple.
Everything takes an input and
returns an output.
Have you ever had a test like a peer
function, you're like whatever, this is so
much easier than mocking
a thousand things.
So, if you decide to test out
of pure stuff Boyer going on.
It's going to be so
much easier than setting up objects all to
be in the right state now or in your test.
That bottom thing is your kick offline
that actually opens up values and
that stuff, but.
>> Brian Lonsdorf: All right,
this is crazy, but
each of these could be tested
individually easily and reproducible.
>> Speaker 2: Exactly,
if you're saying the search streams to,
all these things were pushed out, so
you get the stuff out of the times.
[LAUGH] So, we're good.
>> Brian Lonsdorf: Cool, so
we're getting all the stuff there.